Essay Set #1Type of essay:	Persuasive/ Narrative/ExpositoryGrade level:	8Training set size:	1,785 essaysFinal evaluation set size:	592 essaysAverage length of essays:	350 wordsScoring:	Score1, Score2, Resolved ScoreRubric range:	1-6Resolved score range:	2-12PromptMore and more people use computers, but not everyone agrees that this benefits society. Those who support advances in technology believe that computers have a positive effect on people. They teach hand-eye coordination, give people the ability to learn about faraway places and people, and even allow people to talk online with other people. Others have different ideas. Some experts are concerned that people are spending too much time on their computers and less time exercising, enjoying nature, and interacting with family and friends. Write a letter to your local newspaper in which you state your opinion on the effects computers have on people. Persuade the readers to agree with you.Rubric GuidelinesScore Point 1: An undeveloped response that may take a position but offers no more than very minimal support. Typical elements:•	Contains few or vague details.•	Is awkward and fragmented.•	May be difficult to read and understand.•	May show no awareness of audience.Score Point 2: An under-developed response that may or may not take a position. Typical elements:•	Contains only general reasons with unelaborated and/or list-like details.•	Shows little or no evidence of organization.•	May be awkward and confused or simplistic.•	May show little awareness of audience.Score Point 3: A minimally-developed response that may take a position, but with inadequate support and details. Typical elements:•	Has reasons with minimal elaboration and more general than specific details.•	Shows some organization.•	May be awkward in parts with few transitions.•	Shows some awareness of audience.Score Point 4: A somewhat-developed response that takes a position and provides adequate support. Typical elements:•	Has adequately elaborated reasons with a mix of general and specific details.•	Shows satisfactory organization.•	May be somewhat fluent with some transitional language.•	Shows adequate awareness of audience.Score Point 5: A developed response that takes a clear position and provides reasonably persuasive support. Typical elements:•	Has moderately well elaborated reasons with mostly specific details.•	Exhibits generally strong organization.•	May be moderately fluent with transitional language throughout.•	May show a consistent awareness of audience.Score Point 6: A well-developed response that takes a clear and thoughtful position and provides persuasive support. Typical elements:•	Has fully elaborated reasons with specific details.•	Exhibits strong organization.•	Is fluent and uses sophisticated transitional language.•	May show a heightened awareness of audience.Adjudication Rules•	If the two scores are adjacent, the final score for an item is the sum of the two scores. If the two scores are non-adjacent, the final score is determined by an expert scorer. readDOC•	