Essay Set #2Type of essay:	Persuasive/ Narrative/ExpositoryGrade level:	10Training set size:	1,800 essaysFinal evaluation set size:	600 essaysAverage length of essays:	350 wordsScoring:	R1D1 (Reader 1 Domain 1 Score), R1D2 (Reader 1 Domain 2 Score), R2D1 (Reader 2 Domain 1 Score), R2D2 (Reader 2 Domain 2 Score), D1_Resolved, D2_ResolvedDomain 1 (Writing Applications) Rubric range:	1-6Domain 2 (Language Conventions) Rubric range:	1-4Domain 1 (Writing Applications) Final score range:	1-6Domain 2 (Language Conventions) Final score range:	1-4NOTE: This data set is the only one that is scored using a trait rubric. You will be asked to make two separate predictions for this essay prompt corresponding to the resolved scores for the two domains that were assessed.PromptCensorship in the Libraries"All of us can think of a book that we hope none of our children or any other children have taken off the shelf. But if I have the right to remove that book from the shelf -- that work I abhor -- then you also have exactly the same right and so does everyone else. And then we have no books left on the shelf for any of us." --Katherine Paterson, AuthorWrite a persuasive essay to a newspaper reflecting your vies on censorship in libraries. Do you believe that certain materials, such as books, music, movies, magazines, etc., should be removed from the shelves if they are found offensive? Support your position with convincing arguments from your own experience, observations, and/or reading.Rubric Guidelines—Domain 1: Writing ApplicationsScore Point 6: A Score Point 6 paper is rare. It fully accomplishes the task in a thorough and insightful manner and has a distinctive quality that sets it apart as an outstanding performance.Ideas and ContentDoes the writing sample fully accomplish the task (e.g., support an opinion, summarize, tell a story, or write an article)? Does it•	present a unifying theme or main idea without going off on tangents?•	stay completely focused on topic and task?Does the writing sample include thorough, relevant, and complete ideas? Does it•	include in-depth information and exceptional supporting details that are fully developed?•	fully explore many facets of the topic?OrganizationAre the ideas in the writing sample organized logically? Does the writing•	present a meaningful, cohesive whole with a beginning, a middle, and an end (i.e., include an inviting introduction and a strong conclusion)?•	progress in an order that enhances meaning?•	include smooth transitions between ideas, sentences, and paragraphs to enhance meaning of text (i.e., have a clear connection of ideas and use topic sentences)?StyleDoes the writing sample exhibit exceptional word usage? Does it•	include vocabulary to make explanations detailed and precise, descriptions rich, and actions clear and vivid (e.g., varied word choices, action words, appropriate modifiers, sensory details)?•	demonstrate control of a challenging vocabulary?Does the writing sample demonstrate exceptional writing technique?•	Is the writing exceptionally fluent?•	Does it include varied sentence patterns, including complex sentences?•	Does it demonstrate use of writer’s techniques (e.g., literary conventions such as imagery and dialogue and/or literary genres such as humor and suspense)?VoiceDoes the writing sample demonstrate effective adjustment of language and tone to task and reader? Does it•	exhibit appropriate register (e.g., formal, personal, or dialect) to suit task?•	demonstrate a strong sense of audience?•	exhibit an original perspective (e.g., authoritative, lively, and/or exciting)?Score Point 5: A Score Point 5 paper represents a solid performance. It fully accomplishes the task, but lacks the overall level of sophistication and consistency of a Score Point 6 paper.Ideas and ContentDoes the writing sample fully accomplish the task (e.g., support an opinion, summarize, tell a story, or write an article)? Does it•	present a unifying theme or main idea without going off on tangents?•	stay focused on topic and task?Does the writing sample include many relevant ideas? Does it•	provide in-depth information and more than adequate supporting details that are developed?•	explore many facets of the topic?OrganizationAre the ideas in the writing sample organized logically? Does the writing•	present a meaningful, cohesive whole with a beginning, a middle, and an end (i.e., include a solid introduction and conclusion)?•	progress in an order that enhances meaning of text?•	include smooth transitions (e.g., use topic sentences) between sentences and paragraphs to enhance meaning of text? (Writing may have an occasional lapse.)StyleDoes the writing sample exhibit very good word usage? Does it•	include vocabulary to make explanations detailed and precise, descriptions rich, and actions clear and vivid?•	demonstrate control of vocabulary?Does the writing sample demonstrate very good writing technique?•	Is the writing very fluent?•	Does it include varied sentence patterns, including complex sentences?•	Does it demonstrate use of writer’s techniques (e.g., literary conventions such as imagery and dialogue and/or literary genres such as humor and suspense)?VoiceDoes the writing sample demonstrate effective adjustment of language and tone to task and reader? Does it•	exhibit appropriate register (e.g., formal, personal, or dialect) to suit task?•	demonstrate a sense of audience?•	exhibit an original perspective (e.g., authoritative, lively, and/or exciting)?Score Point 4: A Score Point 4 paper represents a good performance. It accomplishes the task, but generally needs to exhibit more development, better organization, or a more sophisticated writing style to receive a higher score.Ideas and ContentDoes the writing sample accomplish the task (e.g., support an opinion, summarize, tell a story, or write an article)? Does it•	present a unifying theme or main idea? (Writing may include minor tangents.)•	stay mostly focused on topic and task?Does the writing sample include relevant ideas? Does it•	include sufficient information and supporting details? (Details may not be fully developed; ideas may be listed.)•	explore some facets of the topic?OrganizationAre the ideas in the writing sample organized logically? Does the writing•	present a meaningful whole with a beginning, a middle, and an end despite an occasional lapse (e.g., a weak introduction or conclusion)?•	generally progress in an order that enhances meaning of text?•	include transitions between sentences and paragraphs to enhance meaning of text? (Transitions may be rough, although some topic sentences are included.)StyleDoes the writing sample exhibit good word usage? Does it•	include vocabulary that is appropriately chosen, with words that clearly convey the writer’s meaning?•	demonstrate control of basic vocabulary?Does the writing sample demonstrate good writing technique?•	Is the writing fluent?•	Does it exhibit some varied sentence patterns, including some complex sentences?•	Does it demonstrate an attempt to use writer’s techniques (e.g., literary conventions such as imagery and dialogue and/or literary genres such as humor and suspense)?VoiceDoes the writing sample demonstrate an attempt to adjust language and tone to task and reader? Does it•	generally exhibit appropriate register (e.g., formal, personal, or dialect) to suit task? (The writing may occasionally slip out of register.)•	demonstrate some sense of audience?•	attempt an original perspective?Score Point 3: A Score Point 3 paper represents a performance that minimally accomplishes the task. Some elements of development, organization, and writing style are weak.Ideas and ContentDoes the writing sample minimally accomplish the task (e.g., support an opinion, summarize, tell a story, or write an article)? Does it•	attempt a unifying theme or main idea?•	stay somewhat focused on topic and task?Does the writing sample include some relevant ideas? Does it•	include some information with only a few details, or list ideas without supporting details?•	explore some facets of the topic?OrganizationIs there an attempt to logically organize ideas in the writing sample? Does the writing•	have a beginning, a middle, or an end that may be weak or absent?•	demonstrate an attempt to progress in an order that enhances meaning? (Progression of text may sometimes be unclear or out of order.)•	demonstrate an attempt to include transitions? (Are some topic sentences used? Are transitions between sentences and paragraphs weak or absent?)StyleDoes the writing sample exhibit ordinary word usage? Does it•	contain basic vocabulary, with words that are predictable and common?•	demonstrate some control of vocabulary?Does the writing sample demonstrate average writing technique?•	Is the writing generally fluent?•	Does it contain mostly simple sentences (although there may be an attempt at more varied sentence patterns)?•	Is it generally ordinary and predictable?VoiceDoes the writing sample demonstrate an attempt to adjust language and tone to task and reader? Does it•	demonstrate a difficulty in establishing a register (e.g., formal, personal, or dialect)?•	demonstrate little sense of audience?•	generally lack an original perspective?Score Point 2: A Score Point 2 paper represents a performance that only partially accomplishes the task. Some responses may exhibit difficulty maintaining a focus. Others may be too brief to provide sufficient development of the topic or evidence of adequate organizational or writing style.Ideas and ContentDoes the writing sample only partially accomplish the task (e.g., support an opinion, summarize, tell a story, or write an article)? Does it•	attempt a main idea?•	sometimes lose focus or ineffectively display focus?Does the writing sample include few relevant ideas? Does it•	include little information and few or no details?•	explore only one or two facets of the topic?OrganizationIs there a minimal attempt to logically organize ideas in the writing sample?•	Does the writing have only one or two of the three elements: beginning, middle, and end?•	Is the writing sometimes difficult to follow? (Progression of text may be confusing or unclear.)•	Are transitions weak or absent (e.g., few or no topic sentences)?StyleDoes the writing sample exhibit minimal word usage? Does it•	contain limited vocabulary? (Some words may be used incorrectly.)•	demonstrate minimal control of vocabulary?Does the writing sample demonstrate minimal writing technique?•	Does the writing exhibit some fluency?•	Does it rely mostly on simple sentences?•	Is it often repetitive, predictable, or dull?VoiceDoes the writing sample demonstrate language and tone that may be inappropriate to task and reader? Does it•	demonstrate use of a register inappropriate to the task (e.g., slang or dialect in a formal setting)?•	demonstrate little or no sense of audience?•	lack an original perspective?Score Point 1: A Score Point 1 paper represents a performance that fails to accomplish the task. It exhibits considerable difficulty in areas of development, organization, and writing style. The writing is generally either very brief or rambling and repetitive, sometimes resulting in a response that may be difficult to read or comprehend.Ideas and ContentDoes the writing sample fail to accomplish the task (e.g., support an opinion, summarize, tell a story, or write an article)? Is it•	difficult for the reader to discern the main idea?•	too brief or too repetitive to establish or maintain a focus?Does the writing sample include very few relevant ideas?•	Does it include little information with few or no details or unrelated details?•	Is it unsuccessful in attempts to explore any facets of the prompt?OrganizationAre the ideas in the writing sample organized illogically?•	Does it have only one or two of the three elements: beginning, middle, or end?•	Is it difficult to follow, with the order possibly difficult to discern?•	Are transitions weak or absent (e.g., without topic sentences)?StyleDoes the writing sample exhibit less than minimal word usage? Does it•	contain limited vocabulary, with many words used incorrectly?•	demonstrate minimal or less than minimal control of vocabulary?Does the writing sample demonstrate less than minimal writing technique? Does it•	lack fluency?•	demonstrate problems with sentence patterns?•	consist of writing that is flat and lifeless?VoiceDoes the writing sample demonstrate language and tone that may be inappropriate to task and reader? Does it•	demonstrate difficulty in choosing an appropriate register?•	demonstrate a lack of a sense of audience?•	lack an original perspective?Rubric Guidelines—Domain 2: Language ConventionsScore 4: Does the writing sample exhibit a superior command of language skills?A Score Point 4 paper exhibits a superior command of written English language conventions. The paper provides evidence that the student has a thorough control of the concepts outlined in the Indiana Academic Standards associated with the student’s grade level. In a Score Point 4 paper, there are no errors that impair the flow of communication. Errors are generally of the first-draft variety or occur when the student attempts sophisticated sentence construction.•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a superior command of capitalization conventions?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a superior command of the mechanics of punctuation?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a superior command of grade-level-appropriate spelling?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a superior command of grammar and Standard English usage?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a superior command of paragraphing?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a superior command of sentence structure by not using run-on sentences or sentence fragments?Score 3: Does the writing sample exhibit a good control of language skills?In a Score Point 3 paper, errors are occasional and are often of the first-draft variety; they have a minor impact on the flow of communication.•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a good control of capitalization conventions?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a good control of the mechanics of punctuation?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a good control of grade-level-appropriate spelling?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a good control of grammar and Standard English usage?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a good control of paragraphing?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a good control of sentence structure by only occasionally using run-on sentences or sentence fragments?Score 2: Does the writing sample exhibit a fair control of language skills?In a Score Point 2 paper, errors are typically frequent and may occasionally impede the flow of communication.•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a fair control of capitalization conventions?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a fair control of the mechanics of punctuation?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a fair control of grade-level-appropriate spelling?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a fair control of grammar and Standard English usage?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a fair control of paragraphing?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a fair control of sentence structure by frequently using run-on sentences or sentence fragments?Score 1: Does the writing sample exhibit a minimal or less than minimal control of language skills?In a Score Point 1 paper, errors are serious and numerous. The reader may need to stop and reread part of the sample and may struggle to discern the writer’s meaning.•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a minimal control of capitalization conventions?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a minimal control of the mechanics of punctuation?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a minimal control of grade-level-appropriate spelling?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a minimal control of grammar and Standard English usage?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a minimal control of paragraphing?•	Does the writing sample demonstrate a minimal control of sentence structure by using many run-on sentences or sentence fragments?NOTE: The elements of this rubric are applied holistically; no element is intended to supersede any other element. The variety and proportion of errors in relation to the length of the writing sample are considered. A very brief paper consisting of two or three sentences may receive no more than 2 score points.Adjudication Rules•	The 20% second read is for reliability analysis only. The reader 1 score is always reported as the score of record. There is no condition for a third resolution read.