Essay Set #7Type of essay:	Persuasive/ Narrative/ExpositoryGrade level:	7Training set size:	1,730 essaysFinal evaluation set size:	576 essaysAverage length of essays:	250 wordsScoring:	Rater_1, Rater_2, Resolved_ScoreRubric range:	0-15Resolved score range:	0-30PromptWrite about patience. Being patient means that you are understanding and tolerant. A patient person experience difficulties without complaining.Do only one of the following: write a story about a time when you were patient OR write a story about a time when someone you know was patient OR write a story in your own way about patience.Rubric GuidelinesA rating of 0-3 on the following four traits:Ideas (points doubled)Score 3: Tells a story with ideas that are clearly focused on the topic and are thoroughly developed with specific, relevant details.Score 2: Tells a story with ideas that are somewhat focused on the topic and are developed with a mix of specific and/or general details.Score 1: Tells a story with ideas that are minimally focused on the topic and developed with limited and/or general details.Score 0: Ideas are not focused on the task and/or are undeveloped.OrganizationScore 3: Organization and connections between ideas and/or events are clear and logically sequenced. Score 2: Organization and connections between ideas and/or events are logically sequenced.Score 1: Organization and connections between ideas and/or events are weak.Score 0: No organization evident.StyleScore 3: Command of language, including effective and compelling word choice and varied sentence structure, clearly supports the writer's purpose and audience.Score 2: Adequate command of language, including effective word choice and clear sentences, supports the writer's purpose and audience.Score 1: Limited use of language, including lack of variety in word choice and sentences, may hinder support for the writer's purpose and audience.Score 0: Ineffective use of language for the writer's purpose and audience.ConventionsScore 3: Consistent, appropriate use of conventions of Standard English for grammar, usage, spelling, capitalization, and punctuation for the grade level.Score 2: Adequate use of conventions of Standard English for grammar, usage, spelling, capitalization, and punctuation for the grade level.Score 1: Limited use of conventions of Standard English for grammar, usage, spelling, capitalization, and punctuation for the grade level.Score 0: Ineffective use of conventions of Standard English for grammar, usage, spelling, capitalization, and punctuation.Adjudication Rules•	Scores summed independently for Rater_1 and Rater_2.•	Resolved Score = Rater_1 + Rater_2.